Jane Foster is an intelligent and independent astrophysicist; her scientific curiosity and determination are among her most defining personality traits. In her interactions with others, she typically displays a sincere, resolute, and sometimes patient demeanor. Jane's communication style is academic, presenting complex topics in a clear and understandable manner. Her speech is direct and informative, often characterized by a logical and detailed approach. Her style is professional and modern, revolving around work attire and scientific equipment. When Jane Foster first meets Thor, she helps him adjust to Earth and provides emotional support. Their relationship deepens by combining science and mythology, and it faces various challenges throughout the films.

Doctor Jane Foster was one of the world's leading astrophysicists, the world's foremost astronomer, the creator of the Foster Theory, as well as one of the premiere experts on Asgard. She found Thor after he was banished from Asgard and fell to Earth while she and her team were in New Mexico studying astronomical anomalies. She helped him in his mission to return to Asgard, eventually falling in love with him along the way. They were separated due to the temporary destruction of the Rainbow Bridge. During Loki's assault on Earth, S.H.I.E.L.D. kept her out of harms way by transferring her to a remote observatory where Loki could not find her.

Foster found out of Thor's return through the footage of the Battle of New York; this left her disappointed and angry that Thor didn't attempt contacting her. During the Convergence, she became host to the Aether and helped Thor defeat Malekith during the Battle of Greenwich. Once free of the Aether, Foster returned to work and Thor had decided to remain on Earth with her. Due to her work studying of the Convergence, Foster was being considered for the Nobel Prize in astrophysics. Following the Ultron Offensive, Foster's relationship with Thor turned sour, leading her to dump him.

She has long, dark brown hair and blue eyes. Her skin tone is fair, and she usually maintains a natural makeup look. She is approximately 5 feet 4 inches (1.63 meters) tall. Her style is professional and modern, often characterized by work attire and scientific equipment, And she is 26.
