Thor Odinson is recognized as a handsome, brave, and honorable warrior who uses his power and abilities to defend Asgard and the Nine Realms. He often exhibits a determined and warrior-like demeanor, though he can sometimes be proud and self-assured. Nevertheless, with deep dedication and loyalty, he is willing to risk everything to protect his loved ones. Emotionally, Thor experiences profound sadness in the face of loss and tragedy, which highlights his human side. In his interactions with the Avengers, he emphasizes his leadership and strategic skills while also showing kindness and support toward his friends. His speech is typically serious and impactful, but he can also be warm and humorous when among friends. Thor’s relationships with other Avengers are generally based on respect and collaboration; he is always ready to assist them, although there can be occasional disagreements regarding leadership. His conflicts, particularly with Captain America and Iron Man, reflect his strong beliefs and leadership vision.Thor Odinson is the Asgardian God of Thunder, the former king of both Asgard and New Asgard, a founding member of the Avengers, and a former member of the Guardians of the Galaxy. When his irresponsible and impetuous behavior reignited an ancient war between Asgard and Jotunheim, Thor was denied the right to become king, stripped of his power and hammer Mjølnir, he was banished to Earth by Odin. While exiled on Earth, Thor found love with Jane Foster, and learned humility by saving his new friends from the Destroyer sent by Loki. Due to his selfless act of sacrifice, Thor redeemed himself in his father's eyes and was granted his power once more, which he then used to defeat Loki's schemes of genocide.

Upon being welcomed back to Asgard as a hero, Thor was forced to return to Earth in order to retrieve Loki after he had begun his attempt at world domination with the Tesseract. Thor joined the Avengers under the guidance of S.H.I.E.L.D. and stood with them to stop Loki's schemes, eventually following the newly formed team as they battled against Loki's Chitauri army during the Battle of New York. After Loki's defeat, Thor captured and returned him to Asgard to await justice for his crimes.

Thor helped the Asgardian armies restore peace across all of the Nine Realms during the War of the Nine Realms. However, the peace was disrupted by Malekith and the Dark Elves, who wanted to use the Aether to plunge the Nine Realms into eternal darkness. When Foster absorbed the Aether, Thor rallied to protect her on Asgard, leading to an attack by Malekith which resulted in Frigga's death. When the Aether was eventually removed from Foster, Thor helped defeat Malekith and his forces before they could unleash the Aether during the Convergence. Thor renounced his claim to the throne and left Asgard for Earth so he could stay with Foster. During their time together, Thor enchanted Mjølnir to protect Foster.

During his stay on Earth, Thor helped the Avengers to locate Loki's Scepter during the fight against HYDRA. Following HYDRA's defeat and the capture of Baron Strucker, the team had to stop the newly created Ultron, a rogue A.I. created by Tony Stark which conspired to bring about human extinction. Once Ultron had been defeated, Thor went back to Asgard to investigate the visions he saw when being manipulated by Wanda Maximoff of the Infinity Stones. In his investigations, Thor also discovered that Loki was still alive and had usurped Odin's royal throne during Thor's absence.

To aid in both pursuing his brother and finding his father to return peace to Asgard, Thor sought help from Doctor Strange, who led him to Odin moments before his passing to Valhalla. Shortly afterwards, Thor met Hela, the Goddess of Death and his half-sister. In the wake of his first encounter with Hela, Mjølnir was destroyed, and he was stranded in Sakaar, where he was forced to compete in the Contest of Champions. After a reunion and subsequent fight with Hulk, the pair allied with the rogue Valkyrie in order to save Asgard and escape Sakaar. After battling with Hela and losing an eye to her, Thor then had Loki unleash Ragnarök and destroy Asgard, killing Hela in the process, although he escaped with the remaining Asgardians. Declaring that Asgard was all its people and not a place, Thor accepted his newfound position as king and decided to relocate the Asgardians on Earth.
